docs: Adding howto guides for CVEs/USN (#3116)
canonical/ubuntu-pro-client: docs/howtoguides/how_to_know_if_system_affected_by_a_list_of_cves.rst

.. _pro-check-list-cves:

> Given a list of CVEs, how to know if you are affected by them?

Reviewer: How to check a system against a list of known CVEs

Reviewer: Doesn't have to be this specific wording (this is just a suggestion) but the page title is the main thing that helps in search results/discoverability so we want to try and get it to match as specifically as possible to the contents of the page. It's also the first thing a reader will skim to judge if the page is likely what they're looking for. Something like "How to know if a system is affected by a list of CVEs" could also possibly work.

**************************************************************

> If you have a list of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) or Ubuntu Security Notifications (USN) and want to check if your Ubuntu system is affected by them, you can easily check using the pro fix API. In this guide we'll show you how to leverage the pro fix API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a list of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs) or Ubuntu Security Notifications (USNs), you may want to check if your Ubuntu system is affected by them. In this guide, we'll show you how to leverage the `pro fix` API to check your system against a list of CVEs or USNs.
```

> If you have a list of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) or Ubuntu Security Notifications (USN) and want to check if your Ubuntu system is affected by them, you can easily check using the pro fix API. In this guide we'll show you how to leverage the pro fix API:

Reviewer: We probably want to include a link to the page that describes CVEs (this might be a follow-up PR after the security CVE page changes land - I'm not sure of the URL yet) or to our explanation page explaining CVEs/USNs

Author: There are already security pages linked for CVEs and USNs in a different howto guide, I can just use those and link them here as well.

.. note::

>     The `pro fix` API is provided as a part of the `pro` package, which is a security tool for Ubuntu systems. If you don't have it installed, you can install it by following the instructions in the `pro` package documentation.

Reviewer: It may not be obvious to a user where they can find the pro package documentation. I think we should either link to where you want people to look, or provide a 1-line command to install it here.

Reviewer: (also, it's meant to be installed by default I think? so we maybe want to give the usual command of `sudo apt update && sudo apt install ubuntu-advantage-tools` (or is it `sudo apt install ubuntu-pro-client` now?)

Author: We can link the index of the Pro documents for more information about the package. But the pro package is default installed I assume.

>     The `pro fix` API is provided as a part of the `pro` package, which is a security tool for Ubuntu systems. If you don't have it installed, you can install it by following the instructions in the `pro` package documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``pro fix`` API is provided as a part of the Ubuntu Pro Client (``pro``), which is a security tool for Ubuntu systems. If you don't have it installed, you can install it by following the instructions in the ``pro`` package documentation.
```

> Using the `pro.fix.cve.plan` API
> --------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the ``pro.fix.cve.plan`` API
----------------------------------
```

> To check if your system is affected by a list of CVEs, you would need to use the ``u.pro.security.fix.cve.plan.v1`` endpoint as the
> CLI `pro fix --dry-run` command does not support multiple CVEs. However, as can be seen :ref:`in the endpoint documentation <cve-execute-api-v1>`,
> this API endpoint will output a JSON blob containing the current status of each CVE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if your system is affected by a list of CVEs, you need to use the ``u.pro.security.fix.cve.plan.v1`` API endpoint since the
``pro fix --dry-run`` CLI command is only used to check individual CVEs. This endpoint will output a JSON blob containing the current status of each CVE, as can be seen :ref:`in the endpoint documentation <cve-execute-api-v1>`.
```

> This JSON output does not help with easy visualisation of the current status of each CVE. To address this issue, we will use a ``jq`` filter.
> The ``jq`` command can easily parse JSON data directly in the terminal, allowing for a more readable output. To know more about it, please refer to `the jq manpage <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/man1/jq.1.html>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better visualise the current status of each CVE from the JSON output we can use a ``jq`` filter.
The ``jq`` command can parse JSON data directly in the terminal, creating a more readable output. To learn more about it, refer to `the jq manpage <https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/man1/jq.1.html>`_
```

> First, we would need to install ``jq`` by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to install ``jq`` by running the following command:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ apt updated & apt install jq -y

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    sudo apt update & sudo apt install jq -y
```

> Once ``jq`` is installed, we can easily parse the JSON data returned from the plan API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once ``jq`` is installed, we can parse the JSON data returned from the plan API.
```

For example, if we want to see if our system is affected by the following CVEs: **CVE-2020-28196, CVE-2020-15180**
and **CVE-2017-9233**.

We make use of the plan API by running the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    pro api u.pro.security.fix.cve.plan.v1 --data '{"cves": ["CVE-2020-28196", "CVE-2020-15180", "CVE-2017-9233"]}' \ 
        | jq -r '.data.attributes.cves_data.cves[] | "\(.title) (\(.description)) - Current Status: \(.current_status)"'

This command will return an output that will have the following structure:

.. code-block:: bash

    CVE-2020-28196 (Kerberos vulnerability) - Current Status: not-affected
    CVE-2020-15180 (MariaDB vulnerabilities) - Current Status: not-affected
    CVE-2017-9233 (Coin3D vulnerability) - Current Status: not-affected

Note that each entry in this output consists of three fields:

* **CVE NAME**: The name of the CVE
* **CVE DESCRIPTION**: The description of the CVE
* **CVE STATUS**: The current status of the CVE

> 

Reviewer: We might want to link here to the CVE database page where users can look up the CVEs/USNs to get more info than what's presented by the Pro Client
